---
title: "80,000 hours: Positive impact jobs"
date: "2023-07-21"
draft: false
tags: ["ai", "existential risks"]
---

# 8,000 hours: Positive impact jobs
I am genuinely worried about the existential risk that AI may pose to humanity in the next decade. Some people take this as a unreal threat inherited from science fiction movies, but I beg to differ. I have studied AI fundamentals when I was in college, and I even ended up doing AI professionally a decade ago for a few months (when LLMs weren't a thing, the transformer paper had just been published, and random forest was still winning Kaggle competitions). Sadly, I don't think I have the required background to contribute to this problem in any way. 

The other day I mentioned this to a colleague. I was explaining how I would love to be contributing to all of the hard global problems that we are facing as a society (and a species), even if my contribution was a drop in the ocean. I was expecting his answer to be: _"I know, there's not much you can do apart from running for politian or becoming an activist"_. But to my surprise he pointed me to [80,000 hours](https://80000hours.org/). I haven't tried it yet, but I loved the idea of this site.

The basic idea is that _"You have 80,000 hours in your career. This makes it your best opportunity to have a positive impact on the world.".

The platform seems to offer a job board and career advice to help one make the most impact it can over hard global problems while following ones passion. I've been lurking the job board but I haven't yet seen any opportunity that fits my background (it seems I am not a good match to contribute to solving our existential risks). Anyways, an interesting site to keep an eye on. Even if there is not a job for you, I think the idea of the _80,000 hours_ is really powerful, and worth keeping it in mind in our day to day.

Another interesting org exploring ways to address existential risks is https://www.nonlinear.org/.
