---
title: "RandomX: PoW for general-purpose CPUs"
date: "2023-08-10"
draft: false
tags: [blockchain, web3, consensus]
---

# RandomX: PoW for general-purpose CPUs
I was discussing today with the [Fluence Labs](https://github.com/fluencelabs) team and they were describing how they want their Fluence network to be run by a PoW consensus algorithm. They want miners to be able to mine new blocks with just a general-purpose CPU, without requiring expensive GPUs or ASICs. And I didn't know that there was already a PoW implementation, originally implemented for Monero, that is optimized for its use in general purpose CPUs.

This implementation is [RandomX](https://github.com/fluencelabs/RandomX). _"RandomX is a proof-of-work (PoW) algorithm that is optimized for general-purpose CPUs. RandomX uses random code execution (hence the name) together with several memory-hard techniques to minimize the efficiency advantage of specialized hardware."_.

Borrowing a few paragraphs from their README:
> RandomX utilizes a virtual machine that executes programs in a special instruction set that consists of integer math, floating point math and branches. These programs can be translated into the CPU's native machine code on the fly (example: program.asm). At the end, the outputs of the executed programs are consolidated into a 256-bit result using a cryptographic hashing function (Blake2b).
>
> RandomX was primarily designed as a PoW algorithm for Monero. The recommended usage is following:
>
> - The key K is selected to be the hash of a block in the blockchain - this block is called the 'key block'. For optimal mining and verification performance, the key should change every 2048 blocks (~2.8 days) and there should be a delay of 64 blocks (~2 hours) between the key block and the change of the key K. This can be achieved by changing the key when blockHeight % 2048 == 64 and selecting key block such that keyBlockHeight % 2048 == 0.
> - The input H is the standard hashing blob with a selected nonce value.

If used with care, this protocol should achieve ASIC resistance, offering theoretical _"equal"_ opportunity and access to mining rewards to all miners in the system.

The team at Fluence seems to also be exploring a [RiscZero implementation for RandomX](https://github.com/fluencelabs/randomx_risc0). Really cool stuff!
